C-Basics
1. Name 5 types used in C.
2. What is the size of an integer in C?
3. How is a foor loop structured? What is it used for?
4. Are arguments passed by value or reference in C?
5. What is the difference between a struct and a union in C?
6. Describe the use of the stack and the heap memory in c.
7. Give an example of how the stack can overflow.
8. Give an example of a recursive function. 
Can you also provide its code?


Advanced C
1. What is the difference between declaring and defining a variable in C?
2. What is a header file used for in C?
3. What are the steps needed to compile a 
piece of code from source to executable?
4. What is the role of the C pre-processor?
5. What are typical cooands used in the C pre-processor?
6. What are the include guard and what are they used for?
7. How can one access IO peripherals from C code?
8. Can one access a memory location directly in C code?
9. What bitwise opeation are useful in C to manipulate the 
content of a register?
10. How do you set the 2nd bit from the right to 1 of a pointer to a 
u_int8_t?
11. How can you define a struct where the first two fields, 
named A and B, take 1 bit each and the third, C, takes 6 bits?
12. What is a bootloader? Why is it needed?
13. How do you avoid loading a corrupted firmware?
14. How does bootloading work on an ESP32?

ESP32 Platform
1. Name 5 features included in the ESP32
2. What is a datasheet? Why do you need it?
3. How can software running on a microcontroller be debugged?
4. Describe what pull-down, pull-up and open drain configurations are-
5. What can a pin configured with internal pull-up be used for?
6. You are connection a pushbutton to a pin of the MCU on one end 
and to Vcc to the other end. How should you configure you pub to detect
when the button is press? You have the 2 following options to configure:
- Direction: input/output
- Connection: direct/pullup/pulldown

ADC-DAC
1. What is the difference between direct and successive approximation 
ADC conversion? What are the advantages and disadvantages of each technique?
2. Suppose that you have connected your 10-bit ADC to a distance 
sensor that produces 2V when the distance from an object is 0m 
and 0V when the distance is 50m (with anything in between linearly 
scaled between those values). Write the formula that converts the ADC 
value into distance (in meters).
3. When converting a raw ADC value to a physical quantity, what are 
the advantages of using a lookup table? And the disadvantages?
4. What is aliasing and how can it be avoided?
5. I am sampling a 50Hz sinusoid signal with a sampling frequency of 
60Hz, what frequency should I observe in my sampled signal?
6. Define the duty cycle in a PWM modulation.
7. What are the advantages of using a DAC vs PWM?

RTOS
1. Explain the difference between a general purpose OS (like Windows) 
and a Real -Time Operating system (like FreeRTOS).
2. What is the difference between a hard real time and a soft real 
time constraints? Provide examples of use cases.
3. In what sense is a context switch between executing tasks costly?
4. Describe the difference between cooperative, time-slice and 
pre-emptive scheduling approaches.
5. Provide 6 examples of hard and soft deadlines to be met by an 
embedded system.
6. Define the Processor Utilization Factor, U. What condition(s) must 
be met about U to ensure that tasks will be schedulable?
7. What is the formula of the Processor Utilization Factor when we 
consider context switching into it?
8. I have 1 task that needs to be scheduled every 2 seconds and takes 
2 seconds to be executed and another task that needs to be executed
every 3 seconds and takes 2 seconds to be executed. Would these tasks
be schedulable with an RMS approach?
9. A task is developed with 200 lines of code. Given an approximate 
Worst Case Execution Time estimation for that tasks supposin g a 80MhZ
clock.
10. What’s priority inversion and how can it be fixed?
11. Describe the FreeRTOS task state machine.
12. Name and briefly 3 examples of task synchronisation primitives 
available in FreeRTOS.
13. You are developing a little computer for a bike. The device 
includes a sensor that detects rotations of the wheel. At each rotation
an interrupt is raised on a pin. When a user presses a button (which 
can trigger another interrupt), the device shows current distance 
(based on rot ations) for 1 minute and then the screen is turned 
off to save battery. How would you structure the code to manage this 
device into FreeRTOS tasks? What would each task do? How do synchronise
tasks and ISRs?

Power optimization and communication
1. What strategies exist to reduce power consumption in an embedded
system?
2. Provide examples of sleep modes on a microcontroller.
3. What are the 5 power modes of the ESP32?
4. How can FreeRTOS allow low power modes?
5. What types of peripherals use digital communication protocols?
6. Describe the Inter-integrated circuit (I2C) protocol
7. If you have to connect two system located in a production line of a 
factory, which would you use among: Bluetooth, RS232 and SPI?
8. Compute the checksum of the following sequence of bytes, using a 1 
byte checksum: {01, 10, 05, 04, 25, 15}
